# Preamble

We, the students at the University of Delaware, do hereby form the organization
known as the Linux User’s Group for the purpose of promoting the use of \*nix
operating systems and Free and Open Source Software (FOSS) on campus.

# Articles

## I.  Name

The organization shall be known as the Linux User Group.

## II.  Object

The object of this organization shall be to:

  A.  Promote \*nix operating systems

  B.  Promote Free and Open Source Software (FOSS)

  C.  Offer support to the current and future \*nix users on campus

## III.  Membership

Any full-time matriculated undergraduate student may be an official voting
member of the LUG. Graduate students, faculty, and other University-affiliated
individuals may be granted non-voting associate membership. Community members
may be granted non-voting community associate membership.

Only official members of the LUG may vote or hold office.

## IV.  Non-Discrimination Clause

The organization agrees to adhere to all policies and procedures of the
University and all local, state, and federal laws. Members will become
acquainted with policies and procedures found on the University Student Centers
website (http://www.udel.edu/usc/policy.html) and the Student Guide to Policies
(http://www.udel.edu/stuguide/). This organization is viable, functioning,
composed of at least six full time undergraduate students, and adheres to the
University of Delaware's Non-Discrimination/Title IX policies
([*http://www.udel.edu/aboutus/legalnotices.html*](http://www.udel.edu/aboutus/legalnotices.html)).

## V.  Anti-Hazing Clause

Members will become acquainted with policies and procedures found in the
Student Guide to Policies (http://www.udel.edu/stuguide/). This organization is
viable, functioning, composed of at least six full time undergraduate students,
and adheres to the University of Delaware's Hazing Policy
(http://www1.udel.edu/stuguide/16-17/code.html\# hazing). Hazing is defined as
any action taken toward, or circumstance directed at, one conditions, the
endurance of which is intended to be a condition upon which the student(s) may
become a member of, or participate with, any group, regardless of whether the
group is recognized by the University or has been formally organized.

## VI.  Qualifications for Officers

All board members must be full-time matriculated undergraduate students at
the University of Delaware from the time of elections until the end of the next
semester in which elections are held.

## VII.  Officers and Elections

The executive committee of the LUG shall be an executive board of no less
than two and no greater than six official members. A board member’s term ends
upon election of new officers during the first meeting of the month of April,
to provide the new board members an appropriate adjustment period.

The executive board consists of a president and treasurer, as well as an
optional vice president, secretary, and up to two other official members.

### Section I: President

The LUG shall have a president elected by majority vote within the duties of
calling and running meetings and directly handling affairs of the organization.
In case the president’s seat becomes vacant, the vice president, if in effect,
shall fill the president’s seat for the remainder of the term. If no vice
president is in place, elections will be held to fill the president’s seat for
the remainder of the term.

### Section II: Vice President

The vice president, elected by majority vote, shall serve the role of president
at times when the president is absent, unable to serve, or if the president
resigns. In case the vice president’s seat becomes vacant, elections will be
held to fill the vacancy if necessary.

### Section III: Treasurer

The treasurer, elected by majority vote, shall be responsible for all group
expenditures and revenue. The treasurer shall sign any checks written by the
LUG for the purposes of the LUG and maintain group ledgers.

### Section IV: Secretary

The secretary, elected by majority vote, shall record the events of all
meetings of the LUG and shall maintain minutes of those meetings.  The
secretary shall take attendance of those present at official group functions as
necessary.

### Section V: Additional Board Members

Up to two additional board seat may be filled by majority vote of eligible
members to fulfill responsibilities deemed necessary by the LUG.

### Section VI: Qualifications

All board members must be full-time matriculated undergraduate students at the
University of Delaware.

### Section VII: Election Proceedings

Elections will be held by public popular vote by all in attendance at the
meeting. Candidates will be asked to leave the room while tallies are made and
cannot vote either for themselves or the opposition.  Candidates will be able
to vote in elections for positions in which they are not running, and may run
for more than one position, provided they cease running if they have been
elected.

### Section VIII: Vacating a Position

Officers may vacate their position by either (a) resigning or (b) disciplinary
action.

  (a) Resignation:

  Officers may resign given they continue to carry out the necessary duties of
office until a replacement has been found and elected by the standard election
positions. Resigning officers may remain general members of the club, but may
not exercise any executive power.

  (b) Disciplinary action:

  Any officer may be removed from the executive board by a unanimous vote by
the other officers, or a two-thirds vote by both officers and the general
member population. Two officers may bring charges against another standing
officer. All officers will be notified two weeks before the vote is held,
giving the offending officer time to prepare a defense before the vote. After
the vote, the officer in question will have another two weeks to appeal the
decision, and another vote will be made if any two remaining officers deem it
necessary. All proceedings will be submitted to the executive board and general
members in writing, including the charges leveled against an offending officer,
the defense, the result of the vote, an appeal (if made), and the result of the
second vote if the appeal is granted. Votes will be made by secret ballot in
all cases.

  Grounds for disciplinary action include: misuse of organizational funding,
inability to fill position requirements, destruction of organization property,
or any charges deemed significant enough by two or more executive board members
that should warrant disciplinary action.

## VIII.  Selection of an Advisor

An advisor shall be selected each year during the election process outlined
in Article VII must be a faculty member having experience in FOSS and/or \*nix
systems.

## IX.  Meetings and Procedures

### Section I: Board Meetings

There shall be no fewer than one board meeting per regular semester with the
purpose of carrying out necessary business of the LUG.

### Section II: General Meetings

There shall be no fewer than one general meeting per month except during the
Winter and Summer semesters. At least 50% of official members shall be
considered a quorum.

### Section III: Voting Procedure

Only full-time matriculated undergraduate students of the University of
Delaware may vote. Votes may be cast by proxy in written form, either on paper
or electronically.

## X.  Ratification

This constitution shall be ratified by a two-thirds affirmative vote of the
full-time matriculated undergraduate students of the University of Delaware
present at the LUG’s first meeting.

## XI.  Amendments

Amendments to this constitution shall require approval of two-thirds of the
official membership of the LUG. Proposed changes to the constitution shall be
announced at least one month in advance.

### Signatures:

President:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Treasurer:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Advisor:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

USC Staff:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_



<!-- vim: set tw=80 -->
